.TH "oathuri_totp_generate" 3 "1.0.0" "liboathuri" "liboathuri"
.SH NAME
oathuri_totp_generate, oathuri_hotp_generate \- OATH OTP key URI generation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <oathuri.h>
.sp
.BI "int oathuri_totp_generate(const char * " secret ", const char * " account_name ", const char * " issuer ", unsigned " digits ", uint64_t " period ", oathuri_hash " algorithm ", char * " key_uri ");"
.BI "int oathuri_hotp_generate(const char * " secret ", const char * " account_name ", const char * " issuer ", unsigned " digits ", uint64_t " counter ", oathuri_hash " algorithm ", char * " key_uri ");"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The functions of the oathuri library generate a one\-time\-password (OTP) key
URI string to be used by authenticator applications for initialization via QR
code.

\fBoathuri_totp_generate\fR() produces an URI for the time\-variant TOTP
algorithm described in RFC 6238, while \fBoathuri_hotp_generate\fR() produces
an URI for the HMAC\-variant HOTP algorithm described in RFC 4226.

\fIsecret\fR is the shared secret string typically encoded in Base32 according
to RFC 3548. The padding specified in RFC 3548 section 2.2 is not required and
should be omitted. Must be NULL terminated.

\fIaccount_name\fR is the owner of the account (typically an email address) on
the service owned by the \fIissuer\fR. These are usually shown in the
authenticator applications to identify the key. Neither of them can contain a
colon (:). These values will be URL-encoded according to RFC 3986. Both must be
NULL terminated.

\fIdigits\fP determine the length of the generated OTP. Currently only values
6, 7, and 8 are supported.

The parameter \fIperiod\fP describes how long the time window for each
OTP is. The recommended value is 30 seconds, and you can use the value 0 to
indicate this (only for \fBoathuri_totp_generate\fR()).

The parameter \fIcounter\fP is the moving factor indicating the current 
OTP to generate (only for \fBoathuri_hotp_generate\fR()).

\fIalgorithm\fR determines the type of hasing used during OTP generation. The
recommended default is \fBOATHURI_SHA1\fR but \fBOATHURI_SHA256\fR and
\fBOATHURI_SHA512\fR are also supported. 0 can be used to indicate the default.

The generated URI is stored in the \fIkey_uri\fR buffer, which must have room
for the entire encoded URI plus one for the terminating NULL. The maximum size
of the URI will not exceed \fBOATHURI_MAX_LEN\fR. In case of an error, the
buffer is left unmodified.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, \fBOATHURI_OK\fP (zero) is returned, otherwise a negative error
code is returned.
.SH "SINCE"
1.0.0
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Zoltan Puskas.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs by email to <bugs@sinustrom.info>, or open an issue over the web at
<https://github.com/zpuskas/oath-uri/issues>.
.SH RESOURCES
You can find more information and usage examples on the project's website at
<https://sinustrom.info/projects/oath-uri/>.

Read up on the key URI format at
<https://github.com/google/google-authenticator/wiki/Key-Uri-Format>. 
.SH LICENSING
GNU LGPL version 2.1 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html>.
